>> Brian Holt: Now, historically,
I haven't taught Context.
If you look back at the previous
three versions of this course,
we didn't talk about Context at all.
In fact, I think in one of them I actually
go on a reason on why you should not
use React's Context.
But with React 16, which is what we're
using right now, they totally changed,
in fact, it's 16.3,
they totally changed how Context works.
And whereas before,
it was considered an unstable API,
it wasn't planned to stick around forever.
In the docs, it had a big warning,
it was like, do not use this, pretty much?
They've now revamped it, and
I would say, now, it's really good.
It's something that you
should consider using.
So let's talk about why you'd wanna use
Context versus something like State.
So Context is universal data for
your application.
If I'm using Context, if I set something
on the Context, I can access it anywhere.
Inside of that React tree, right?
So if I have this like, let's say,
we're in, let's see, how about results?
Yeah, if I'm in results JS,
if I set the Context here in results JS,
I can access it anywhere
underneath results, right?
So, for example, you can see that this
render is like a pet component here right,
so I would be able to
access it inside of pet.
Now, this is both really cool and
also something that's easily abused.
So I want you to be very cautious and
very reticent perhaps to use Context and
only use it when you really,
really, really have to.
So on one hand,
sometimes it's good to have a universal,
centralized store of data, which is
what Context is gonna give to you.
>> Brian Holt: But you're also kind of
robbing yourself of one of the really big
benefits of React, which is it's very
explicit with its data management, right?
It's really easy to see that this
component has this data and it passes it
into here, and it passes it into here,
and it passes it into here, right?
It's very easy to follow that flow of
data, even if it's a little verbose.
With Context, you can set Context up here,
none of these components in the middle
know anything about it and access it
at another component way down the line.
So this is kind of, again,
a double edged sword here.
You get some conveniences, but at the cost
of being a little bit more magical,
which is kinda something that
you should be worried about.
>> Brian Holt: So this is something
that they call like the data tunnelling
problem, right?
That if I have data up here, and I need to
access it down here, every component in
the middle has to pass it from its
props into the children, right?
And every component in the middle
has to know about these props, and
it's not doing anything with, right.
The data tunnelling, or I've heard
it called props drilling as well.
And that's what Context solves for
you, is it kinda says, okay,
I'm gonna set Context up here, all these
components in the middle don't have to
know anything about it, and
the one down at the bottom can access it.
So makes sense?
Cool.
So that's what Context is gonna buy for
us.
It kinda fills the same need as Redux,
if we're being honest.
This is what Redux provides for
you as well.
We'll talk about Redux here later.
But Context, in my mind, in my book,
largely replaces Redux, and
in times that I would use Redux,
I would generally use Context now.